======================

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

++++
MEDIA CONTACT: Ron Walli
Communications & Community Outreach
(865) 576-0226

======================


OAK RIDGE, Tenn., April 18, 2005 -- The OSCAR working group has released
a new version of the Open Source Cluster Application Resources (OSCAR)
toolkit, OSCAR 4.1.

OSCAR is a software package that supports the use of high-performance 
computing by reducing the work of cluster configuration, installation, 
operation, and management. Enhancements to previous versions of OSCAR in 
OSCAR 4.1 include full support for Mandrakelinux 10.0 running on IA32 
processors. Enhanced support for Red Hat Enterprise Linux as many bug 
fixes and additions were made to make installation on this platform much 
better, both on IA32 and IA64 architectures. APITest has been added to 
the OSCAR testing framework and it is envisioned that all installation 
tests will be performed by this package in upcoming releases. DepMan and 
PackMan are now fully integrated into the OSCAR installation mechanism. 
These tools provide RPM dependency resolution and greatly reduce the 
amount of work developers do to install software, both during the server 
installation and the build client image stage.

OSCAR 4.1 has been fully tested for use with IA32 processors under Red
Hat Linux 9, Fedora Core 2, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 3, and Mandrakelinux 
10.0. Additionally, IA64 support is also available under Red Hat 
Enterprise Linux 3.0.

The OSCAR project would also like to announce a new website for 
registering clusters installed with OSCAR. The URL for this site is 
http://oscar.OpenClusterGroup.org/cluster-register.

OSCAR 4.1, previous OSCAR versions, and additional information about the 
OSCAR project are available from the OSCAR website:

     http://oscar.openclustergroup.org

The OSCAR working group is a consortium of industry, academic and 
research participants. Primary contributors include Bald Guy Software, 
Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, Dell, IBM, Indiana 
University, Intel, Louisiana Tech University, Oak Ridge National 
Laboratory (ORNL), and Revolution Linux. OSCAR is the product of the 
OSCAR working group of the Open Cluster Group (OCG). OCG is dedicated to 
making cluster computing practical. The OCG and its subgroups are open to 
all.

Related resources:
   + OSCAR Working Group Homepage
     http://oscar.OpenClusterGroup.org

   + OSCAR Project Homepage
     http://sourceforge.net/projects/oscar

   + OSCAR Mailing Lists
      User Questions: <oscar-users@lists.sourceforge.net>
         Development: <oscar-devel@lists.sourcefore.net>

   + Open Cluster Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org

   + HA-OSCAR (high-availability) Working Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org/HA-OSCAR

   + SSS-OSCAR (scaleable systems)
     http://sourceforge.net/projects/sss-oscar/
     http://www.scidac.org/ScalableSystems/

   + SSI-OSCAR (single system image)
     http://ssi-oscar.irisa.fr/

   + OSCAR on Debian
     http://ssi-oscar.irisa.fr/oscarondebian/

ORNL is a Department of Energy multi-program research facility managed	by
UT-Battelle.
